---
layout: post
title: Introduction: 
---

In my home province of Ontario, Canada the traditional pastime of hunting has seen a significant decrease in participation over the past few decades. Apart from providing affordable sustenance for participants, hunting plays a highly impactful role in the conservation and management of the various animals that inhabit Ontario. Through statistical analysis and careful research, the Ontario Ministry of Natural Resources publishes specifically crafted figures for the number of different game animals that should be harvested each season towards ensuring the sustainability of these populations and thus conservation of the fragile ecosystems which they inhabit. 
If one wildlife species was to become too highly populated in comparison to those species who exist both above and below it on the food chain, there can be significant side effects which are felt in several different ways. As the population of one species swells beyond manageable numbers, it will often consume its food source at an unsustainable rate frequently resulting in animals wandering into unnatural regions where they inadvertently cause property damage and pose risk to human life. To maintain a population level that most effectively balances the needs of an ecosystems at many different levels of the food chain, environmental conservation organizations such as the Ontario Ministry of Natural Resources rely on activities such as hunting and fishing as a powerful conservation tool to guide the natural world towards the most equitable outcomes. 
With the gradual decline in popularity of activities such as hunting and fishing, this important tool for the conservation of the natural world becomes far less effective. Amongst several reasons suggested as being behind this decline is the vast complexity of regulations that are imposed on these types of activities. The same careful research and statistical inference that have resulted in hunting being an incredibly effective force towards conservation, has also produced a considerable barrier to entry as Ontario has been segmented into  ~150 different “wildlife management  units” (WMU) , each with different regulations and season dates for different game animals, once again differing in rules and regulations according to province of origin of a participant. 
To complete my capstone project, I will perform data mining to determine the exact geographic boundaries for each of these WMU’s, aggregate the many regulations and season dates through the creation of automation software, in order to perform data integration bringing these disparate sources of information into one unified dataset. Once this dataset is completion, I will create a unique data visualization map to empower a prospective hunter to quickly and effectively obtain all the information that they would need to adopt the hobby of hunting in my home province. 
