---
layout: post
title: Methodology
---

In order to obtain the required data as discussed in the previous post there are 3 primary tasks which must be completed: 

1. Working with MNR Shapefile & Converting to GeoJSON: While I was able to obtain some geographical representation of the WMU locations that segment the province they were in a format that is not compatible with Folium, the geographical visualization library that I had intended to work with. The WMU layer was in the form of a ‘shapefiles’ (.shp) which is a geospatial vector data format for GIS software. While being a commonly used file format in many mapping applications in its current form it would not be suitable for this project. 
Using the open source program ‘ogr2ogr’ provided under the Geospatial Data Abstraction Library project (GDAL) I was able to wrangle this proprietary geographic information file into a ‘GeoJSON’ format which is a JSON object adhering to specific formatting restrictions containing a series of longitude / latitude coordinates that would be easier to manipulate with folium. 

2. Data Mining for Open Season Dates & Other Regulations: Once I had the base layer for my visualization the next step was to gather the data for each of the map segments. The primary source of data was the ‘2019 Hunting Regulations Summary’ document available in several forms from the Ontario Ministry of the Environment website. From these online sources I was able to extract the required data through software automation and populated a ‘.csv’ file with the raw information. After reviewing the results and performing minor data cleansing (largely in the form of removing whitespaces before and after certain cell values) I was able to review the tabular record set to ensure that each region of the province was accounted for. 

3. Adding Points of Interest using FourSquare API: The final component of the visualization required some way to determine both the street address and folium-friendly latitude / longitude coordinates for many important POI’s to hunters. The FourSquare service providing this functionality through calls to the API with the ‘explore’ parameter set which allows the service to return venues close to a certain point based upon some supplied keyword. I decided that the most prudent point of interest for this map would be the locations of ‘ServiceOntario’ branches which are the locations where things such as permits, and hunting tags are acquired. Through a series of API calls supplied with coordinates all over the province I was able to efficiently populate a dataframe of useful locations that could be plotted on the map through the folium ‘Marker’ object. 
